Think about some indicators that might be helpful to compute.

Here are some ideas that might be helpful:

The average volume over the past five days.
The average volume over the past year.
The ratio between the average volume for the past five days, and the average volume for the past year.
The standard deviation of the average volume over the past five days.
The standard deviation of the average volume over the past year.
The ratio between the standard deviation of the average volume for the past five days, and the standard deviation of the average volume for the past year.
The year component of the date.
The ratio between the lowest price in the past year and the current price.
The ratio between the highest price in the past year and the current price.
The year component of the date.
The month component of the date.
The day of week.
The day component of the date.
The number of holidays in the prior month.



Accuracy would improve greatly by making predictions only one day ahead. For example, train a model using data from 1951-01-03 to 2013-01-02, make predictions for 2013-01-03, and then train another model using data from 1951-01-03 to 2013-01-03, make predictions for 2013-01-04, and so on. This more closely simulates what we'd do if we were trading using the algorithm.

We can also improve the algorithm used significantly. Try other techniques, like a random forest, and see if they perform better.

We can also incorporate outside data, such as the weather in New York City (where most trading happens) the day before, and the amount of Twitter activity around certain stocks.

we can also make the system real-time by writing an automated script to download the latest data when the market closes, and make predictions for the next day.

Finally, we can make the system "higher-resolution". we're currently making daily predictions, but we could make hourly, minute-by-minute, or second by second predictions. This will require obtaining more data, though. we could also make predictions for individual stocks instead of the S&P500.